README.md, before:

# Code and Data for YouTube Engagement Study

We release the code and data for the following paper.
If you use these datasets, or refer to its results, please cite:
> Siqi Wu, [Marian-Andrei Rizoiu](http://www.rizoiu.eu/), and [Lexing Xie](http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~xlx/). Beyond Views: Measuring and Predicting Engagement in Online Videos. *AAAI International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM)*, 2018. \[ [paper](https://avalanchesiqi.github.io/files/icwsm2018engagement.pdf) \]

## Software
These datasets are collected via an integrated YouTube data crawler - [YouTube insight data crawler](https://github.com/computationalmedia/youtube-insight).

## Python packages version
All codes are developed and tested in Python 3.6, along with NumPy 1.13, matplotlib 2.1 and SciPy 0.19.

## Data
The data is hosted on [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1wZwDIR18IHPPTiH1C0dyBbGPR-3MktI7?usp=sharing).
  
  ```
  data
  │   README.md
  └───tweeted_videos.tar.bz2
  │   │   activism.json
  │   │   autos.json
  │   │   comedy.json
  │   │   education.json
  │   │   entertainment.json
  │   │   film.json
  │   │   gaming.json
  │   │   howto.json
  │   │   movies.json
  │   │   music.json
  │   │   news.json
  │   │   people.json
  │   │   pets.json
  │   │   science.json
  │   │   shows.json
  │   │   sports.json
  │   │   trailers.json
  │   │   travel.json
  └───quality_videos.tar.bz2
  │   │   billboard16.json
  │   │   top_news.json
  │   │   vevo.json
  └───freebase_mid_type_name.tar.bz2  
      │   freebase_mid_type_name.csv
  ```

### File Description
All files are compressed in `tar.bz2`.
Uncompress by command `find -name "*.tar.bz2" -exec tar -jxvf {} \;`
Tweeted videos and Quality videos datasets are in `json` format.
`freebase_mid_type_name.csv` contains 46,570,472 relational mapping of Freebase topic mid, topic type and human-readable topic name.

Dataset | Uncompressed | Compressed | #Videos | #Channels
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Tweeted videos | 26GB | 4.6GB | 5,331,204 | 1,257,412
Quality videos | 1.9GB | 359MB | 96,397 | 8,823
Vevo videos | 1.4GB | - | 67,649 | 8,685
Billboard16 videos | 1.1MB | - | 63 | 47
Top news videos | 469MB | - | 28,685 | 91
freebase_mid_type_name | 2.5GB | 636MB | - | - |

### Tweeted videos dataset
This dataset contains YouTube videos published between July 1st and August 31st, 2016.
To be collected, the video needs
(a) be mentioned on Twitter during aforementioned collection period;
(b) have insight statistics available;
(c) have at least 100 views within the first 30 days after upload.

### Quality videos datasets
These datasets contain videos deemed of high quality by domain experts.
* Vevo videos: Videos of verified Vevo artists, as of August 31st, 2016.
* Billboard16 videos: Videos of [2016 Billboard Hot 100 chart](http://www.billboard.com/charts/year-end/2016/hot-100-songs).
* Top news videos: Videos of [top 100 most viewed News channels](https://vidstatsx.com/youtube-top-100-most-viewed-news-politics).

## Video Data Fields
Each line is a YouTube video in `json` format, an example is shown below.
```json
{
   "id": "pFMj8KL8nJA",
   "snippet": {
      "description": "For more on India's goods and services tax and the future of the economy under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, CCTV America\u2019s Rachelle Akuffo interviewed Peter Kohli, the chief investment officer at D-M-S Funds.",
      "title": "Peter Kohli on the importance of the goods and services tax",
      "channelId": "UCj7wKsOBhRD9Jy4yahkMRMw",
      "channelTitle": "CCTV America",
      "publishedAt": "2016-08-10T00:34:01.000Z",
      "categoryId": "25",
      "detectLang": "en"
   },
   "contentDetails": {
      "duration": "PT5M27S",
      "definition": "hd",
      "dimension": "2d",
      "caption": "false"
   },
   "topicDetails": {
      "topicIds": ["/m/0546cd"],
      "relevantTopicIds": ["/m/03rk0", "/m/0gfps3", "/m/0296q2", "/m/05qt0", "/m/0dgrhmk", "/m/09x0r", "/m/05qt0", "/m/098wr"]
   },
   "insights": {
      "startDate": "2016-08-10",
      "days": "0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,10,11,14,15,16,17,18,19,23,26,29,30,44,45,62,69,114,118,122,149,154,159,160,182,188,189,199,204,226,253",
      "dailyView": "70,11,15,7,7,8,11,4,7,2,2,1,6,6,3,2,2,2,1,1,4,1,1,1,1,2,3,1,1,1,1,3,1,2,2,1,1,1,1",
      "totalView": "281",
      "dailyWatch": "171.966666667,22.35,42.95,24.6333333333,26.05,25.3833333333,34.25,9.63333333333,6.31666666667,0.7,7.13333333333,0.0333333333333,15.2333333333,16.7,2.2,0.116666666667,0.966666666667,1.1,5.43333333333,5.43333333333,10.7666666667,1.2,5.43333333333,1.8,5.43333333333,5.45,3.15,0.2,1.68333333333,0.733333333333,0.483333333333,3.21666666667,5.43333333333,0.383333333333,5.6,0.0666666666667,0.533333333333,5.43333333333,1.06666666667",
      "avgWatch": "2.3290628707",
      "dailyShare": "2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0",
      "totalShare": "2",
      "dailySubscriber": "0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0",
      "totalSubscriber": "0"
   }
}
```

### detectLang field
`detectLang` is the result from [langdetect 1.0.7](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/langdetect?), 'NA' if no result returns.

### topicDetails field
`topicIds` and `relevantTopicIds` are resolved to entity name via the latest [Freebase data dump](https://developers.google.com/freebase/).
We provide extracted mapping results in `freebase_mid_type_name.csv`.

Commit message:

add quickstart scripts and update README

README.md, after:

# Code and Data for YouTube Engagement Study

We release the code and data for the following paper.
If you use these datasets, or refer to its results, please cite:
> Siqi Wu, [Marian-Andrei Rizoiu](http://www.rizoiu.eu/), and [Lexing Xie](http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~xlx/). Beyond Views: Measuring and Predicting Engagement in Online Videos. *AAAI International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM)*, 2018. \[ [paper](https://avalanchesiqi.github.io/files/icwsm2018engagement.pdf) \]

## Code usage
We provide three quickstart bash scripts:
1. [run_all_wrangling.sh](/wrangling/run_all_wrangling.sh)
2. [run_all_temporal_analysis.sh](/temporal_analysis/run_all_temporal_analysis.sh)
3. [run_all_predictors.sh](/engagement_prediction/run_all_predictors.sh)

Download and place data in the [data](/data) directory, uncompress them then run the three scripts above consecutively.
Detailed usage and running time are documented in the corresponding python script.
Plotting scripts to generate figures in the paper are in the [plots](/plots) directory.

## Python packages version
All codes are developed and tested in Python 3.6, along with NumPy 1.13, matplotlib 2.1 and SciPy 0.19.

## Data collection tool
These datasets are collected via an integrated YouTube data crawler - [YouTube insight data crawler](https://github.com/computationalmedia/youtube-insight).

## Data
The data is hosted on [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1wZwDIR18IHPPTiH1C0dyBbGPR-3MktI7?usp=sharing).
  
  ```
  data
  │   README.md
  └───tweeted_videos.tar.bz2
  │   │   activism.json
  │   │   autos.json
  │   │   comedy.json
  │   │   education.json
  │   │   entertainment.json
  │   │   film.json
  │   │   gaming.json
  │   │   howto.json
  │   │   movies.json
  │   │   music.json
  │   │   news.json
  │   │   people.json
  │   │   pets.json
  │   │   science.json
  │   │   shows.json
  │   │   sports.json
  │   │   trailers.json
  │   │   travel.json
  └───quality_videos.tar.bz2
  │   │   billboard16.json
  │   │   top_news.json
  │   │   vevo.json
  └───freebase_mid_type_name.tar.bz2  
      │   freebase_mid_type_name.csv
  ```

### File Description
All files are compressed in `tar.bz2`.
Uncompress by command `find -name "*.tar.bz2" -exec tar -jxvf {} \;`
Tweeted videos and Quality videos datasets are in `json` format.
`freebase_mid_type_name.csv` contains 46,570,472 relational mapping of Freebase topic mid, topic type and human-readable topic name.

Dataset | Uncompressed | Compressed | #Videos | #Channels
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Tweeted videos | 26GB | 4.6GB | 5,331,204 | 1,257,412
Quality videos | 1.9GB | 359MB | 96,397 | 8,823
Vevo videos | 1.4GB | - | 67,649 | 8,685
Billboard16 videos | 1.1MB | - | 63 | 47
Top news videos | 469MB | - | 28,685 | 91
freebase_mid_type_name | 2.5GB | 636MB | - | - |

### Tweeted videos dataset
This dataset contains YouTube videos published between July 1st and August 31st, 2016.
To be collected, the video needs
(a) be mentioned on Twitter during aforementioned collection period;
(b) have insight statistics available;
(c) have at least 100 views within the first 30 days after upload.

### Quality videos datasets
These datasets contain videos deemed of high quality by domain experts.
* Vevo videos: Videos of verified Vevo artists, as of August 31st, 2016.
* Billboard16 videos: Videos of [2016 Billboard Hot 100 chart](http://www.billboard.com/charts/year-end/2016/hot-100-songs).
* Top news videos: Videos of [top 100 most viewed News channels](https://vidstatsx.com/youtube-top-100-most-viewed-news-politics).

## Video Data Fields
Each line is a YouTube video in `json` format, an example is shown below.
```json
{
   "id": "pFMj8KL8nJA",
   "snippet": {
      "description": "For more on India's goods and services tax and the future of the economy under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, CCTV America\u2019s Rachelle Akuffo interviewed Peter Kohli, the chief investment officer at D-M-S Funds.",
      "title": "Peter Kohli on the importance of the goods and services tax",
      "channelId": "UCj7wKsOBhRD9Jy4yahkMRMw",
      "channelTitle": "CCTV America",
      "publishedAt": "2016-08-10T00:34:01.000Z",
      "categoryId": "25",
      "detectLang": "en"
   },
   "contentDetails": {
      "duration": "PT5M27S",
      "definition": "hd",
      "dimension": "2d",
      "caption": "false"
   },
   "topicDetails": {
      "topicIds": ["/m/0546cd"],
      "relevantTopicIds": ["/m/03rk0", "/m/0gfps3", "/m/0296q2", "/m/05qt0", "/m/0dgrhmk", "/m/09x0r", "/m/05qt0", "/m/098wr"]
   },
   "insights": {
      "startDate": "2016-08-10",
      "days": "0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,10,11,14,15,16,17,18,19,23,26,29,30,44,45,62,69,114,118,122,149,154,159,160,182,188,189,199,204,226,253",
      "dailyView": "70,11,15,7,7,8,11,4,7,2,2,1,6,6,3,2,2,2,1,1,4,1,1,1,1,2,3,1,1,1,1,3,1,2,2,1,1,1,1",
      "totalView": "281",
      "dailyWatch": "171.966666667,22.35,42.95,24.6333333333,26.05,25.3833333333,34.25,9.63333333333,6.31666666667,0.7,7.13333333333,0.0333333333333,15.2333333333,16.7,2.2,0.116666666667,0.966666666667,1.1,5.43333333333,5.43333333333,10.7666666667,1.2,5.43333333333,1.8,5.43333333333,5.45,3.15,0.2,1.68333333333,0.733333333333,0.483333333333,3.21666666667,5.43333333333,0.383333333333,5.6,0.0666666666667,0.533333333333,5.43333333333,1.06666666667",
      "avgWatch": "2.3290628707",
      "dailyShare": "2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0",
      "totalShare": "2",
      "dailySubscriber": "0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0",
      "totalSubscriber": "0"
   }
}
```

### detectLang field
`detectLang` is the result from [langdetect 1.0.7](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/langdetect?), 'NA' if no result returns.

### topicDetails field
`topicIds` and `relevantTopicIds` are resolved to entity name via the latest [Freebase data dump](https://developers.google.com/freebase/).
We provide extracted mapping results in `freebase_mid_type_name.csv`.
